# Organ-Harbour
Organ donation and transplantation using blockchain

## Introduction
Organ donation and transplantation is one of the great advances in modern medicine. It offers a second chance at life to people of all ages who have life-threatening diseases or injuries to their vital organs. But due to scarcity, unfortunately, not everyone who needs an organ transplant gets one in time. The lack of transparency in the existing system among donors, recipients, hospitals and other higher authorities, often leads to the illegal sale and purchase of organs. The more needy patient might not get the organ while someone who is behind in the waiting list might get an organ before, if he/she is able to pay the higher amount. As per the current system the entire data is stored at a single point, thus shifting to a distributed system will introduce more security.
In response to this pressing challenge, we introduce Organ Harbour, an innovative dApp platform connecting organ donor and acceptor via public ethereum blockchain that gives a decentralized, transparent and secure system for organ donation and transplantation. Central to our approach is the utilization of smart contracts, meticulously designed to govern the conditions and actions pertinent to hospitals, patients, and donors. These smart contracts enable hospitals to efficiently match donors with compatible recipients, streamlining the transplantation process and ensuring timely access to life-saving treatments. The secure deployment of smart contracts onto the Ethereum blockchain, facilitated by migrations.sol, underscores our commitment to transparency and reliability. 
Moreover, our platform provides a user-friendly interface for donors, empowering them to make informed decisions about organ donation through access to educational resources and streamlined pledge processes. Hospitals manage donor and patient databases and perform transplant matching on the basis of blood group and organs required. 
Through the following sections, we will delve into the intricacies of our project, exploring how blockchain technology enables us to streamline the organ donation process, authenticate donors and patients, facilitate efficient matching, and ensure transparency throughout the transplantation journey. From donor pledges and registrations to the deployment of smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain, our project showcases the transformative potential of blockchain in revolutionizing healthcare practices for the betterment of society. 

## PROBLEM STATEMENT
An organ donation and transplantation application is essential to address the growing waiting list and efficiently matching donors with recipients. The existing system relies on traditional methods like manual record-keeping, and third-party mediation leading to delays, errors, and a lack of transparency using centralized databases. Our approach uses Ethereum-blockchain-based technology that not only addresses the limitations of traditional methods but also ensures three key features- privacy, security, and confidentiality for organ donation. By utilizing smart contracts between the donors and patients we ensure security and confidentiality features. Distributed ledger in blockchain, ensures a secure and immutable record of organ donation transactions. By doing so, we aim to save more lives by improving the accuracy, and speed of organ matching, and ultimately increasing the number of successful organ transplantations.

